                   West Visayas State University
               COLLEGE OF INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY
                                     Luna St., La Paz, Iloilo City 5000
                                            Iloilo, Philippines
               * Trunkline: (063) (033) 320-0870 loc 1403 * Telefax No.: (033) 320-0879
                    * Website: www.wvsu.edu.ph       * Email Address: cict@wvsu.edu.ph



             CCS 249 Final Project Requirements

Requirements
       For the Final Project in CCS 249, you and your group members are
required to develop and submit an NLP System, which apply concepts
discussed in the subject, from text preprocessing to get the features of
the training corpus, to developing models, and evaluating said models.
      The NLP system will consist of two components:
      a. A Backend server that will hold all of the NLP methods. The
         Flask framework for developing the backend is highly
         recommended the backend.
         Flask For Beginners: https://www.ffnext.io/blog/python-
         backend-with-flask-for-beginners
      b. A simple Frontend that will accept user input, communicate
         with the backend via API, and display the output. Any
         frameworks/SDKs can be utilized.
      Two documents are to be prepared:
      a. A software documentation encompassing the overview,
         introduction, features, technical aspects, and functional
         requirements of the NLP system.

      b. A short presentation is prepared to present the application’s
         purpose, core features and a demonstration of the
         application's navigating and core features.
      As for the groupings, a group can consist of up to 2-5 members.
       The use of Python modules/libraries for preprocessing, model
training, and evaluation is permitted as long as it is disclosed in the
software documentation.
      The use of third-party Language Models, Classifiers, and GPTs,
especially APIs is prohibited. Models should be developed and trained by
the group. However, fine tuning a pretrained LLM model is allowed.
                  West Visayas State University
              COLLEGE OF INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY
                                    Luna St., La Paz, Iloilo City 5000
                                           Iloilo, Philippines
              * Trunkline: (063) (033) 320-0870 loc 1403 * Telefax No.: (033) 320-0879
                   * Website: www.wvsu.edu.ph       * Email Address: cict@wvsu.edu.ph


     Finally, an assignment on the LMS will be created later for
submitting the necessary files.


Specific requirements for submission:
1. Presentation
      a. A short PowerPoint/pdf presentation file to be presented at a
         scheduled date.
      b. Content of the presentation should include the following:
             i. Problem statement and purpose of the app
            ii. Identified the training corpora appropriate for the
                application.
           iii. Text Preprocessing/Processing techniques explanation
                and implementation.
           iv. NLP Task identified, explained and its implementation.
            v. Model Training and Development
           vi. Evaluation of the model
      c. Presentation time should be 5-10 minutes long
      d. A 5-10 minute Q&A session

2. A software documentation listing the technical aspects of the
   developed NLP system.
      a. The documentation must contain the following sections:
             i. Overview and Introduction
                   1. App Name
                   2. Purpose
                   3. Technology Stack (Frameworks, SDKs,
                      modules/packages utilized) along with their
                      versions
            ii. Functional Requirements
                   1. Core features with Descriptions
                   2. Specify libraries/packages.
           iii. Future Enhancements and Roadmap
                   1. Known Limitations
                   West Visayas State University
               COLLEGE OF INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY
                                     Luna St., La Paz, Iloilo City 5000
                                            Iloilo, Philippines
               * Trunkline: (063) (033) 320-0870 loc 1403 * Telefax No.: (033) 320-0879
                    * Website: www.wvsu.edu.ph       * Email Address: cict@wvsu.edu.ph


                     2. Planned Features and Improvements

3. GitHub submission of the project source code and folders.
      a. A GitHub repository is going to be created within our
         organization.
      b. The team leaders will fork the repository, collaborate with their
         team members.
      c. Once the project is done, the team leaders will create a PR to
         merge their changes to the main repository.

4. Self and Peer assessment
      a. A Self and Peer Assessment template will be distributed to
          everyone a day after your project presentation.
      b. This will factor in the final project score, as stated in the
          Syllabus:

   Project Score Calculation: (PROJECT SCORE RAW * 50%) + (SELF EVAL
   SCORE RAW * 25%) + (PEER EVAL SCORE RAW * 25%)
